The Wheel of Time turns, and Ages come and pass, leaving memories that become 
legend. Legend fades to myth, and even myth is long forgotten when the Age that 
gave it birth comes again. In one Age, called the Third Age by some, an Age yet to 
come, an Age long past, a wind rose in the Mountains of Mist. The wind was not the 
beginning. There are neither beginnings nor endings to the turning of the Wheel of 
Time. But it was a beginning.
Down long valleys the wind swept, valleys blue with morning mist hanging in 
the air, some forested with evergreens, some bare where grasses and wildflowers 
would soon spring up. It howled across half-buried ruins and broken monuments, all 
as forgotten as those who had built them. It moaned in the passes, weatherworn cuts 
between peaks capped with snow that never melted. Thick clouds clung to the 
mountaintops so that snow and white billows seemed one.
In the lowlands winter was going or gone, yet here in the heights it held 
awhile, quilting the mountainsides with broad, white patches. Only evergreens clung 
to leaf or needle; all other branches stood bare, brown or gray against the rock and not 
yet quickened ground. There was no sound but the crisp rush of wind over snow and 
stone. The land seemed to be waiting. Waiting for something to burst.
Sitting his horse just inside a thicket of leatherleaf and pine, Perrin Aybara 
shivered and tugged his fur-lined cloak closer, as close as he could with a longbow in 
one hand and a great, half-moon axe at his belt. It was a good axe of cold steel; Perrin 
had pumped the bellows the day master Luhhan had made it. The wind jerked at his 
cloak, pulling the hood back from his shaggy curls, and cut through his coat; he 
wiggled his toes in his boots for warmth and shifted on his high-cantled saddle, but 
his mind was not really on the cold. Eyeing his five companions, he wondered if they, 
too, felt it. Not the waiting they had been sent there for, but something more.
Stepper, his horse, shifted and tossed his head. He had named the dun stallion 
for his quick feet, but now Stepper seemed to feel his rider's irritation and impatience. 
I am tired of all this waiting, all this sitting while Moiraine holds us at tight as tongs. 
Burn the Aes Sedai! When will it end?
He sniffed the wind without thinking. The smell of horse predominated, and of 
men and men's sweat. A rabbit had gone through those trees not long since, fear 
powering its run, but the fox on its trail had not killed there. He realized what he was 
doing, and stopped it. You'd think I would get a stuffed nose with all this wind. He 
almost wished he did have one. And I wouldn't let Moiraine do anything about it, 
either.
Something tickled the back of his mind. He refused to acknowledge it. He did 
not mention his feeling to his companions.